## 1 PCA

1. Compute the mean of the sample points and write the centered design matrix $\dot X$

The mean: 

```
X_mean: array([1., 1.])
```

The centered design matrix: 

```
X_dot: array([[-1., -1.],
              [-1.,  0.],
              [ 0., -1.],
              [ 0.,  1.],
              [ 1.,  0.],
              [ 1.,  1.]])
```



2. Find all the principal components of this sample. Write them as unit vectors.

Eigenvalues and eigenvectors:

```
eigenvalues: array([1.2, 0.4])
eigenvectors: array([[ 0.70710678, -0.70710678],
                     [ 0.70710678,  0.70710678]])
```

Principal components are `[ 0.70710678, 0.70710678]` and `[ 0.70710678,  -0.70710678]`.



a) Which of those two principal components would be preferred if you use only one?

I would use `[ 0.70710678, 0.70710678]`

b) What information does the PCA algorithm use to decide that one principal components is better than another?

According to eigenvalues, that is, PCA always picks the one with the largest eigenvalue.

c) From an optimization point of view, why do we prefer that one?

Because it maximizes the variance of the sample points after projection. Also, it maximizes the objective function $\max a^TSa$



3. Compute the vector projection of each of the original sample points onto your preferred principal component.

```
X_proj: array([[0. , 0. ],
               [0.5, 0.5],
               [0.5, 0.5],
               [1.5, 1.5],
               [1.5, 1.5],
               [2. , 2. ]])
```



## 2 LDA

1. Calculate the sample means $\mu_p,\mu_f$ and the variances $\sigma_p^2,\sigma_f^2$ computed for QDA

$$
\mu_p=6
$$

$$
\mu_f=2
$$

$$
\sigma_p^2=\frac74
$$

$$
\sigma_p^2=2
$$



2. Calculate the sample means and variances used by LDA

$$
\mu_p=6
$$

$$
\mu_f=2
$$

$$
\sigma^2=\frac74\times\frac{6}{11}+2\times\frac{5}{11}=\frac{41}{22}
$$



3. Calculate the decision boundary for LDA

The decision boundary satisfies $P(Y_{pass}|X)=P(Y_{fail}|X)$
$$
P(Y_{pass}|X)=P(Y_{fail}|X) \Rightarrow P(Y_{pass})P(X|Y_{pass})=P(Y_{fail})P(X|Y_{fail})  \\
\frac{6}{11}P(X|Y_{pass})=\frac{5}{11}P(X|Y_{fail})   \\
\frac{6}{\sqrt{2\pi}\sigma}\exp\big( -\frac{(x-\mu_p)^2}{2\sigma^2} \big) = \frac{5}{\sqrt{2\pi}\sigma}\exp\big( -\frac{(x-\mu_f)^2}{2\sigma^2} \big) \\
\Rightarrow x = 4-\frac{41}{88}\ln\frac65
$$

